---
layout: post
---
The new Fetch API gives us a better method to perform http requests than the native XMLHttpRequest (XHR) (or a library utility such as jQuery's ajax() which provides a wrapper around it).

Until Fetch is more widely supported natively in browsers, it's a good idea to include the library - https://github.com/github/fetch.

fetch() accepts 2 arguments: the path to the resource, and an object of request parameters.

fetch() defaults to a GET request.

{% highlight javascript %}
function getData(success) {
	return fetch('/path/to/resource', {
	  headers: {
	    Accept: 'application/json',
	  },
	}).then(checkStatus)
	  .then(parseJSON)
	  .then(success);
}
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight javascript %}
function checkStatus(response) {
	if (response.status >= 200 && response.status < 300) {
  		return response;
	} else {
		const error = new Error(`HTTP Error ${response.statusText}`);
		error.status = response.statusText;
		error.response = response;
		console.log(error);
		throw error;
	}
}

function parseJSON(response) {
	return response.json();
}
{% endhighlight %}

Fetch returns a *promise* which allows us to chain .then() statements to the end of the fetch call.

We pass each then statement a function. At each stage of the pipeline the result of the previous statement is passed as the argument to the next one. I.e.

1. checkStatus is passed the response object returned from the fetch() call.
2. checkStatus verifies the object then passes the same object on to parseJSON().
3. parseJSON returns the data returned by the endpoint/resource.
4. success (the callback function passed in) is invoked with the data passed on from parseJSON.